The young man received his assignment,
and it was not for the faint of heart.
He would have to tell
about the desolation of cherished cities,
the burning of Jehovah’s temple,
and the captivity of his people.
And for delivering these messages
(which they were not easy),
he would endure
scathing and murderous attempts on his life.
Now, on top of that,
he would experience
moments of discouragement,
isolation,
self-doubt.
When receiving his assignment,
this young man said:
‘Jehovah, I cannot do this.
I’m just a boy.’
The boy was from Anathoth,
and his name was Jeremiah.
But what would help him
be successful with this assignment?
It would be following and taking to heart
the very points that Brother Fleegle
brought out about faith.
He would need a deep, abiding faith
and trust in Jehovah.
And in addition to that,
he would need to learn how to march.
Jeremiah was ready to enter
the front lines of the battle
—the battle to defend pure worship
against those who hate it.
And like any good soldier,
one of the first things you learn
is how to march.
Now, marching is more challenging
than mere walking.
Marching requires determination.
It requires stamina, endurance,
and to keep moving forward
in a regular, steady step.
And as Jeremiah entered this battle,
he would need to learn how to march.
What would help him?
Recalling what was written in God’s Word
centuries before his time,
words recorded at Deuteronomy 31:6.
I want to read these words to you.
These words were so important to Jeremiah.
The context was when Moses was encouraging
confidence in Jehovah.
The nation of Israel was ready
to enter into the Promised Land.
They would face enemies.
They would face a fight, a battle.
But look at what Moses says
in verse 6 of Deuteronomy 31:
“Be courageous and strong.
“Do not be afraid
or struck with terror before them,
“for Jehovah your God
“is the one marching with you.
“[He’s marching with you.]
He will neither desert you nor abandon you.”
So how did Jehovah march alongside this boy?
At Jeremiah 1:8,
Jehovah tells Jeremiah:
“Do not be afraid
because of their appearance,
for ‘I am with you to save you.’”
Don’t be afraid.
In other words,
when a person marches with Jehovah,
you see, Jehovah marches with him,
boosting him along, making him strong.
It’s as if Jehovah told Jeremiah,
‘Don’t worry,
you just come and march with me.’
And for the next 67 years,
that’s exactly what Jeremiah did
in Jehovah’s strength.
Think about what happened
Jeremiah preached to hard-hearted people,
including wicked kings,
corrupt priests, apostates.
He did it, and as he marched,
he saw Jehovah march with him.
He was conscious of that fact.
Jehovah saved him
when imprisoned in a dungeon.
Jehovah supplied him
a daily ration of food during a famine.
Jehovah rescued him from a cistern.
You see, this was real.
This was tangible.
This was concrete.
It wasn’t made-up.
Jehovah was marching with him.
And as Jeremiah saw Jehovah’s support,
it strengthened him
and it gave him more confidence,
and Jehovah marched with him.
And then Jeremiah was ready
for the next trial.
Why do we bring this up?
Because your situation
is very similar to Jeremiah’s.
How so?
Along with your Gilead training,
you are being put on the front lines.
You’re going to be asked
to defend pure worship,
maybe like you never have before.
So we want you to stay in the battle.
We want you to keep marching.
For example, what if in your assignment,
opposition turns into outright persecution?
Or what if in your branch territory,
you face political upheaval or war?
What if you need
to risk your lives
to provide relief
like our brothers in and around Ukraine
are doing?
What if that happens?
Your brothers will be looking to you
as an example.
Will you be able to set that example?
Can you maintain that example?
Yes, you can.
Because when you march with Jehovah
—now listen carefully
when you march with Jehovah,
he does something very special for you
in moments of weakness.
Well, consider what happened to Jeremiah.
At one point,
it got so bad that he wanted to quit.
‘I’m quitting.’
Jeremiah 20:9:
‘I’m not going to mention Jehovah’s name.
‘I’m not going to talk about it anymore.
‘I’m discouraged.
I’m tired.
I’m exhausted.
I’m going to stop marching.’
He was losing his focus.
So how does Jehovah help him?
What did Jehovah do?
Did he say, ‘Well, Jeremiah, that’s it.
If you’re going to be exhausted,
I’ll find another prophet.’
No, Jehovah did not do that.
What did Jehovah do?
And this is a thought
we want you to take to heart,
Jeremiah 20:11.
How does Jehovah help him to keep marching?
“But Jehovah was with me
“[like a what, friend?
“like a brother?
No, no, no.]
like a fearsome warrior.”
So in what way
did Jehovah prove to be a fearsome warrior,
a mighty soldier,
standing right at Jeremiah’s side?
How did Jehovah do that?
Well, what happens in battle?
When a soldier sees
a fellow soldier stumble and fall,
what does he do?
He rushes to his side; he supports him;
he grabs him;
they go together;
he wraps his arm around him,
and they move to safety together.
This is what Jehovah did for Jeremiah.
In fact, Jeremiah tells us this
in chapter 20, and in verse 7.
What does Jeremiah say?
He experienced this.
He says:
“You used your strength against me,
and you prevailed.”
“You used your strength against me.”
What does that mean?
Jehovah used his strength
against Jeremiah’s weakness.
Seeing Jehovah do this for him
time and again, time and again,
enabled Jeremiah to accomplish
what he could have never accomplished
on his own.
This is the point we’re making for you.
All of these experiences
strengthen and transform
his natural shyness,
his feelings of inadequacy,
and his lack of confidence
into ironlike boldness.
Jehovah was with him
like a fearsome warrior.
Jehovah loved the commission
he gave Jeremiah.
He was working with Jeremiah
to fulfill this commission.
It was precious to Jehovah.
Just like your commission,
it’s precious to Jehovah.
So you can be assured
that Jehovah is going to do the same for you.
We want you to have that confidence.
In fact, one sister,
who not long ago graduated from Gilead,
experienced this firsthand.
Shortly after arriving in her assignment,
she was arrested.
Our sister was held captive
in a dungeonlike prison.
And during that time,
she was given meager rations of food
and was subjected
to painful, prolonged punishment.
How was she able to endure?
How could she stay strong?
How?
By marching with Jehovah.
And she never lost sight of the fact
that she was part of an army of marchers.
She was marching with the fearsome Warrior.
In fact, this is what she said:
“Thinking about my Gilead classmates
“and visualizing their faces gave me power.
“I kept their smiling faces in front of me.
“I imagined where each classmate sat
“—each row from left to right—
front to back.
“I recalled where they were from,
what work they did in their assignments.
“This made the time go by quickly,
and I felt no physical pain at all.
“I sang in my head Kingdom songs.
“The song I sang the most
was ‘Jehovah Is Your Name.’
“Another song that touched my heart deeply
“was song number 38,
‘He Will Make You Strong.’
“I made that song more personal
“by replacing the pronoun ‘you’ with ‘me.’
“This song helped me never to give up.
“I had no Bible.
“So each day, I meditated on Bible teachings
“such as everlasting life in Paradise
and a resurrection hope.
“These meditations gave me deep inner joy
“and a calm that cannot be described.
“At times, I thought about the possibility
of facing death,
but the fear of death did not consume me.”
Yes, she thought about the possibility
of facing death,
but the fear of death did not consume her.
The fearsome Warrior, Jehovah,
was marching with her.
No prison walls, no bars
can block Jehovah from marching with her.
And our sister was recently released
from prison.
So whatever your trials,
we don’t know
what trials you’re going to face.
You don’t know.
We don’t know.
But reflect on how Jehovah supports you.
Stay in the battle.
And when you reflect
on how Jehovah supports you,
it’s tangible, it’s real, it’s concrete.
Think about that.
Jehovah will never stop marching with you.
And remember, you are part of a large army.
You’re not alone.
Therefore, when you see
a fellow worshipper struggling,
don’t ignore them.
Help them not to fall behind.
Help them.
You’re part of an army.
You’ve been trained to do this.
That’s what school taught you:
not to be independent,
but to be interdependent,
not independen—interdependent
with your brothers and sisters.
That’s your job.
Be quick to help them back up.
Keep marching with Jehovah.
And although you don’t know
what challenges lie ahead,
you are prepared.
So with your marching orders in hand,
be courageous and strong,
knowing that each trial you face,
each trial you endure,
will make you stronger for the next one.
Be confident that you will always have
the fearsome Warrior,
the mighty Soldier marching by your side.
He’s there, Jehovah.
So now go
wherever the battle may take you.
Go,
and be determined to fulfill your commission
to support your brothers
as you march on with Jehovah.